i don't write books
to please my ego
to make people laugh or to entertain i
want to influence them i want to get
inside your skin inside your brain and
alter how you look at the world i think
this
change in your perspective and how you
look and socialize and deal with people
will radically alter so many aspects in
your life
everybody welcome to impact theory our
goal with this show and company is to
introduce you to the people and ideas
that will help you actually execute on
your dreams all right today's guest is
the legendary number one new york times
best-selling author of a string of books
on the nature of power itself his
writings have become an intellectual
buffet for those seeking power and
influence as evidenced by the fact that
his work has become an integral part of
the very fabric of hip-hop culture he's
been referenced in songs by jay-z kanye
west and drake to name but a few and
busta rhymes used his lessons to resolve
a tricky issue with problematic movie
producers fidel castro has even been
reported to have read his book and his
most famous tome the 48 laws of power is
both one of the most requested books in
the american prison system and one of
the most frequently banned along with
one of his other books the 33 strategies
for war this may seem an overreaction to
what are ultimately just books but in
truth every one of his six books are
razor sharp and dripping with usable
insights they are dark and powerfully
revealing works that look at some of the
most often ignored and harder to look at
parts of human nature and that's exactly
why they have transcended the status of
mere books that you read and become
among the rare pantheon of books that
you study for that very reason his book
mastery is on my ultra short list of
books that you must read
so please
help me in welcoming the best-selling
author of the laws of human nature the
godfather of power dynamics himself
robert greene
[Applause]
writing your intro is about the easiest
thing i'm ever going to do in my life
what you've written is so extraordinary
and as somebody who
um i had to toughen up so that was my
journey as an entrepreneur so some
people i think start too hard don't have
enough empathy and they really have to
find that and find their love for other
humans um i led with that but had to
like develop the resilience and the
internal fortitude to see things through
um so i love hip-hop culture and the
lack of anxiety that they talk about
and i like that similar thing in your
books where it really just delves into
this is sort of an objective look at
human nature or power um and it's really
pretty fascinating
so the fact that you wrote a book about
the laws of human nature is
very intriguing i could not wait to dive
into this and i want to start with yes
you take a default sort of negative view
about our aggressions and things like
that what is your
default stance on human nature
i admit that i have a negative bias
um but i try and make my books as
objective as possible
but i think that
we consider ourselves human
obviously we're human beings but i don't
by that definition
i think that we're actually animals that
we have an animal nature and that we
have to become human
and we become human
by overcoming some of these deep-rooted
animal forces within us
these forces within us that we can't
control such as the fact that we can't
control our own emotions our own anger
our own frustration or if we feel envy
or we're caught up in the emotions of
other people i call those forces primal
forces human nature and i have 18 of
them
and they can create
sort of negative patterns of behavior
the dark side of what we see in the news
etc
and we all have them ingrained in us
because with the way we evolved millions
of years ago served a very definite
purpose for our survival as a species
but the savannas of east africa is not
the offices in silicon valley or 21st
century america the world isn't the same
we are not built to adapt to this new
technological environment we're in we
still have that lizard brain those
animal parts of our nature so my book is
designed to confront you with human
nature
so you can begin to overcome it so for
instance law number one is about how
we're basically irrational creatures
we think that we're rational but really
our emotions govern us
we feel something before we ever have an
idea or think it
we have to become rational through this
process that i lay out in my book
so i don't mean to say
that we're negative because humans are
obviously incredible look at what we've
created it's an outrageous if you think
about who we were millions of years ago
and where we are now we're obviously
capable of incredible achievements we're
also the most brilliant social animal on
the planet we're capable of cooperating
and working on teams to a level that no
other animal has ever reached so there's
obviously another side to the story but
to become greater to become truly human
we have to overcome these forces that i
lay out in the book
what are some of the other primitive
forces that are driving us especially
ones that people might not be aware of
well
i think we're kind of aware of it but we
don't see it in the same light so for
instance we are built to constantly
compare ourselves to other people
we're always thinking of what the other
person has and how we are in relation to
them are we getting as much attention as
that other person it started off when we
were children are we getting more
attention than our siblings from our
parents so we're continually comparing
ourselves in rank in power in status to
the people around us
and this is deep force within us and
it's constant every day every moment you
don't realize it but you're going
through that
and social media it completely
exacerbates this tendency in human
nature
and it's the source of envy which i have
a whole chapter on in my book
so that's one force that i that i talk
about and it has i try and show the
roots of that you know in our evolution
another is the contagiousness of
emotions which is extremely powerful we
tend to think of ourselves as autonomous
human beings that we're independent that
we
i feel affection or anger or frustration
on my own we don't realize how deeply we
are affected by the emotions of the
people in a group
this is the viral effects emotions are
extremely contagious and i explained in
the book there was an evolutionary
reason for that
before the invention of language we
humans had to be able to communicate to
one another
through just picking up the moods of
other people
and if there was a threat to our group
or our tribe the ability to feel fear
and anger together bonded us and helped
us survive
but that doesn't serve much function in
the world today where viral emotions can
be very dangerous and very
we see a lot of that on social media
so those are two of forces you know i
could mention and there are several
others
so you've said that you often write from
a place of anger
i do
what was the anger that was driving this
book
well
i tell you you know i just think
i'm really worried about people nowadays
so in mastery my worry was
people no longer knew how to build
things
no longer understood the process for
becoming great and excelling at some
craft or field but now my worry is that
people are so immersed in their
smartphones and their technology that
they don't understand
people they're not observing people and
this has been documented in studies
that young people for instance levels of
self-absorption and narcissism have been
growing steadily since the 1970s
we are the preeminent social animal on
the planet
our survival depends on how we relate to
other people whether we understand them
on some level and i find a lot of people
are increasingly in the world are really
bad at observing just basic elements in
human psychology
the position i'm in now i'm a consultant
to a lot of very powerful famous people
i'm not going to mention any names but
people fly me out to consult with ceos
political people who are very powerful
and even in other countries
and the number one problem i find that
they have is an inability to understand
the people they're dealing with they
hire the wrong partners they hire the
worst assistance
into ruining their lives these are
people who are technically brilliant
they understand their field they
understand marketing etc but they don't
understand basics about people around
them and they make terrible hires or
they marry absolutely the wrong person
for them in their lives their emotions
or you know their personal relationship
bring them down
so this is like our achilles heel and i
think it's gotten worse in the world
today so my anger was that people are so
focused on technology but that we need
to focus much more on human nature on
understanding people that's the primary
skill that you need in life
i found it really interesting so i'm
sort of the
i get a little mischaracterized as the
blank slate guy and admittedly i do want
to believe that we're blank slates but i
don't believe that i don't think that we
are blank slates and i think that there
is a certain amount of human nature
that's really baked into things um one
thing that i thought was pretty funny in
your book was like the biggest
part of human nature is that we deny
that there is human nature i thought
that was wonderfully ironic and
terrifyingly true and i want to know
like how much of this is stuff where we
tease out because you said the purpose
of the book is to give you a sense of
who you are so that you can change who
you are but without that self-awareness
without going through the process of
learning this stuff you're just never
going to be able to make that change
right so okay operating from the thesis
that your book is designed to give me
that level of self-awareness as i go
through the process of trying to tease
out who i really am which is a
fascinating journey that your book takes
people on if they're willing to
acknowledge when they see themselves
how much of this is truly like just uh
you were born that way and how much of
this is
early childhood development
well i have a chapter on character which
is an extremely important chapter
and what i'm trying to get at in there
is that there is something deeply
ingrained in each individual person a
particular individual nature that we all
have and that causes us to go into
compulsive patterns of behavior i have
this problem myself
i notice each time i write a book i'm
telling myself i'm going to make this
book short i'm not going to ruin my
health i'm not going to do so much
research and every god damn time i still
go through the same process i can't
break this pattern okay and everybody
has them where does it come from some of
it comes from our dna from our genetics
things we can't control that we've
inherited from our parents
some of it comes from our early
attachments
and some of it comes as we get older and
we interact with teachers and mentors
and various people who create
a certain way we view ourselves if
people keep telling us that we're not
really worthy that we're not good
students we internalize that and we end
up becoming like that
so it's a mix of things you know each
person has a mix of these qualities and
you have to kind of
and untangle the various strands and
you're right what i'm saying is you're a
mystery to yourself
you don't know who you are you have
patterns of behavior and you're not even
understanding that you don't know why
you're angry you think you're angry
because that person
said something mean to you or did
something wrong but in fact your anger
probably stems from things from deep
deep within from your childhood and
you're not reacting to that person but
to actually your parents and what they
didn't give you
you know the the the origin of wisdom
according to the greeks was know thyself
right
and i believe that very firmly that
knowledge about who you are is an end in
itself and will help you in so many ways
become that human being that i think we
all have the potential to become so talk
to me about self-awareness and how it
impacts biases
well um
you have to see this is my books i try
to be as practical as possible i don't
want to get academic i want you to be
able to actually use this knowledge
so i'm a great believer in baby steps in
learning how to do things on a daily
basis
so normally when we feel an emotion or
we have an idea we don't examine it we
just assume that's that's you know just
natural we came up with that on our own
i want you every single day to be
examining yourself and to look at
yourself
why do i have that idea
why am i feeling this sudden emotion
and it's not easy it takes it can take
time and it can take degree of
introspection that you're not
comfortable with
but if you begin to look at yourself and
question
why do i feel this way
and examine it and look at perhaps other
sources of it then you can begin this
process of understanding instead of just
simply accepting that you feel or have
this
this certain idea
so when i write the book on human nature
i admit
that i have a negative bias towards
human nature i tend to see the dark side
in people i tend to see their
manipulative side what they're trying to
hide that was the source for the 48 laws
of power that was the anger i felt then
that people weren't being honest about
how manipulative they can be
so
i recognize that i have this bias
i recognize that that's who i am instead
of thinking that
well i'm just brilliant and my ideas are
always correct i question it and i
question
is my negative bias towards human nature
is that reality or is it just me and
maybe it's just me because of my the way
my parents are you know my parents were
kind of anxious and a little worried
about a lot of things and i internalized
that maybe that gave me my negative view
on people so i question it and i say
maybe it's not real maybe i need to read
books that tell me the other side of the
story and there are plenty of books
you know that say that humans are great
so question yourself stop assuming that
everything you do is so brilliant and
smart and right
and imagine that maybe your ideas don't
come from yourself maybe
you're
feeling some political
anger or whatever comes from the fact
that you're just assuming it from other
people you're following things on
facebook and you're getting swept up in
some viral emotion you want to think
that you're completely independent and
autonomous but maybe you're not as
independent as you think
so how do you want people to use your
book as a tool as they go through what
exercises do you want them to do because
i think
some of a lack of self-awareness is not
just a
i don't want to do the work the
introspection it's not understanding the
process of what introspection is
well some of it also is denial some of
it also is a block that people have to
look at themselves because it is
it is a little bit
the confrontation with reality
but as far as the process is concerned
it's it's a daily thing so first of all
the first and most important thing that
you have to do is to is to come to admit
it's almost like an aaa thing that you
have a problem
if you go through life thinking you
don't have a problem that you know who
you are that your relationships with
people are fine that everything is
hunky-dory then you're never going to be
able to even begin to go into the
process so admit you have a problem
admit you don't understand the people
you deal with
even your spouse or your children their
mysteries to you you don't really know
what they're thinking so admit that
first
when you admit that now you're motivated
to try and learn there there are little
steps you can take i won't go through
all of them but the first thing is
if you take your your your wife or your
husband if you say to yourself i don't
really understand them i think i do but
a lot of the times when you think you
understand them you're just simply
projecting your onto them your own
emotions step back and say today i'm
going to observe
her let's just say from my point of view
in a different way than i normally do
and i'm going to look at her nonverbal
communication because i'm a big believer
in non-verbals and today i'm going to
glean one truth about my wife or spouse
or partner
that i had never noticed before and i'm
going to try and see
perhaps get to the point where i can
begin to understand her perspective so
if for instance there's an argument or a
disagreement
here's another instance where you step
back and you go stop being so
self-righteous and maybe try and take
the step of understanding her point of
view so you know so these are sort of
baby steps that you take in in life
you can use this in your office where
you think
you you know your colleagues but you
don't know them and they might be having
thoughts about you that aren't very
pleasant that you don't want to confront
step back and start observing them and i
have many many examples in the book
about how lessons on how you can start
observing people
observing their body language
seeing the subtext behind their words
you know seeing their patterns of
behavior you know for instance
you'll notice sometimes we all go
through this
that when we
see our boss
we get a kind of
body language and a nervousness that's
it's unusual but when we see somebody
else like a friend
suddenly our face lights up and we're
much more relaxed and happy all people
are like that so you want to see how
somebody reacts to you when you meet
them when you come up to them and how
they react to other people and notice
that there's a great difference when
they see you and suddenly they're very
nervous around you or they're very
excited that will tell you a lot about
yourself and about them you're not being
observant you mentioned milton erickson
before we were talking about how
incredibly observant he was
his
what he was fascinated with was how
incredibly unobservant people are
let's go deeper into milton erickson who
is a shared fascination for you and i
and seeing him in your book
was very excited and you'd give like
this blow by blow account of how he
comes to what is really
almost a superpower his ability to read
nonverbal communication is beyond
powerful but the way that you tell the
story it makes it sort of self-evident
how he develops that
walk us through
you know what happened when he got
struck with polio how he leveraged that
what some of those realizations were and
then how we can all train ourselves
um and and if you can touch on like what
he learned about the word no like i
found that really yeah yeah
well milton erickson is amazing figure
he's the person who created basically
hypnotherapy and was the main
inspiration between behind nlp
and
when he was about 18 years old he
suddenly got polio
and as his polio spread his entire body
was was paralyzed
even the only thing that wasn't was his
eyeballs he could move he could look at
people he had some ability to see
move his eyes a little bit
and so
imagine i can imagine myself i have a
very active mind imagine you're
paralyzed in bed you can't read you
can't watch anything no television no
entertainment
people can read you stories basically
but how incredibly bored you'll become
and how frustrating and you can't do
anything for yourself you know you'd go
crazy
so what milton erickson did as he was in
that state and he was living in his
house and people were visiting is him
is he decided he would observe people on
a much higher level
now he couldn't say anything he couldn't
communicate because his
mouth was paralyzed as well
so all he could do was observe
and observe people closer and closer
and so
he noticed that as that as he progressed
in that there's there's this second
language that people speak and this
language is non-verbal
it is in gestures it is in tone of voice
it isn't just your body posture
and slowly over months and years of
being paralyzed in this position
he literally mastered this second
language
he could tell
from the way
his sister
moved her hair like that or moved her
head that she was feeling some
resentment towards her other sister he
noticed as you said that there were like
five different forms of no
that someone could say no
i don't want that apple when they were
offered to it but they really meant yeah
i really do want that apple
and so he noticed that there were all
these different variations of no
depending on the tone of voice
he could hear people in another room
talking about him and through that the
tone of their voice he could understand
what they were really trying to say
about him and the subtext behind
the words that people have
and so as people talk and they use words
to conceal what they're thinking their
bodies reveal what they're actually
thinking behind the words through their
nervousness their tone of voice their
eyes the the eyes and the mouth tell you
incredible amounts of information milton
erickson mastered this language and as
he got older he used this in his therapy
where he would have patients enter his
room he became a psychoanalyst
and he deliberately placed his desk at
one end of the corner so they would have
to walk into the room
and he could understand from the way
they walked and their gait
whether they were nervous whether they
were excited whether they wanted to
change their lives or not
he was so brilliant at it that people
later in life people thought he was
psychic
he could literally read your thoughts
it was unbelievable
so
the point of the story was
that humans have this ability to unders
to master the second language
put yourself in the position of our
earliest ancestors i mentioned this
earlier
they don't have language yet their
survival depends on getting along with
the group
and knowing like you're hunting and
where where is that leopard what's going
on
but you can't say anything you don't
have language yet so your ability to
pick up fear
in the eyes of a fellow group member or
to pick up excitement your survival
depended on it so i maintain that our
ancestors were virtually psychic in
their ability to attune themselves to
the non-verbal communication that people
are constantly emitting
so the idea in this book is
we humans are all constantly emitting
information about our real emotions
it comes out non-verbally
and you're not picking up these signals
you're so focused on people's words that
you're missing this other reality which
is so incredibly eloquent and i try and
instruct you in the book about how you
can become a superior observer of this
for me the milton erickson ability
really does border on a superpower that
came from obviously something very
disruptive in his life right and i know
recently you had a stroke and the way
that you're approaching it has the sort
of milton erickson written all over it
with rebuilding yourself but with a
writer's mind and so you're paying
attention to what it takes and what
you're going through walk us through
that like what are you learning about
that what principles of the book are you
applying to it
well um you know i i hate to say it but
it was kind of a near-death experience
um because
i was with my wife at the time and
she called the ambulance right away
i was driving
and if she hadn't called right away i
would have permanent brain damage right
now
and i probably would have gotten in a
very bad car accident i might not be
alive
so you know the last chapter is a
chapter about death confronting your
greatest fear in life which is your
mortality
i literally have to confront that
so the abstract words that i have about
oh confront your death overcome your
fear suddenly became very real to me
and so that was one aspect of it
but literally
you lose control of your body
i'm a very independent person very
willful
i like to imagine myself like i can do
anything i want and suddenly i'm put in
the position of being a baby depending
on people to clothe me to feed me i
can't walk very well i have no control
over my left side of my body i wasn't an
athlete but i loved exercise
endurance exercise not all that wiped
away
so what am i going to do am i going to
start feeling sorry for myself
and so i applied one of the things in my
book
which is has to do with the last chapter
about death
but it also permeates through the book
is just sort of accept things as they
are
stop judging
you know i had to accept that this is a
fact of life
and how can i make it into something
strong how can i turn this into a
positive
i have a chapter on your attitude in
life
how you can change your circumstances by
changing your attitude your attitude
towards life will determine what you get
if you're avoidant and hostile towards
people a hostile person will tend to
create hostility around him
so how can i alter my attitude
and it's a struggle every single day i
have to be incredibly patient and i'm
not a patient person
it takes me
10 minutes to put on a t-shirt to be
able to get my left arm through that
whole that sleeve
damn it i'm not somebody who's patient
and i've had to develop patience i've
had to overcome
all of these sort of negative qualities
in myself
so if i talk in the book about
overcoming your own nature just damn man
that was [__] slammed into my face
right i had to overcome my frustration
my lack of patience my willfulness the
fact that i always have to do things
myself
you know and then i had to confront the
fact that i could easily have died but i
didn't i'm alive so i can learn from
this i'm learning a lot
and i'm going to rebuild my body i'm
going to rebuild it i've come a long way
so like a month ago i was pretty bad i'm
able to walk now fairly well
in four months from now i'm going to be
swimming again in six months i'm going
to be jogging i'm going to be back to
where i was nothing will stop me but i
have to overcome all of my deficiencies
and all of these weaknesses that i have
built up over the years
yeah that is uh needless to say that's a
long difficult road
how do you
or what tools do you use to reset your
mind every day as you're going through
this in in paralleling that maybe to the
chekhov story in the book
and how what he overcame it was really
extraordinary being beaten by his father
all the time
and that he goes on to be the guy that
isn't bitter was pretty extraordinary
what mechanisms do you use to reset
every day
i meditate every morning i've been doing
that for several years for
eight years now religiously
and in those meditations i confront
myself
so
i'm sitting there meditating and my
meditation is all about emptying the
mind but it's impossible to empty the
mind so as you're meditating thoughts
come to you anxieties worries
resentments
i've trained myself to question where
they are
each time i feel anger at my
sibling or my mother or friend for
saying something that i misinterpreted i
go
that's your ego speaking
you these people weren't saying
something that was personal you just
have your ego which is always getting in
your way question it so question my
impatience my frustrations etc the
meditation has really helped me
then a fr a friend of mine
wrote saying about the stroke well look
at it this way
that it's kind of an adventure
that you're having to experience things
you've never experienced before
oh wow
you know i think i'm so brilliant but
i'm not sometimes people other people
have the best ideas i'm always stealing
their ideas
that was a great idea this is an
adventure this is something new i'm
having to learn it it can be exciting
although really i'm feeling kind of
bitter and angry i have to confront that
and move past it the chekhov story is
great because
chekhov was born in a in russia the most
miserable village in russia
poverty-stricken etc
really cold and no streets weren't paved
and wild dogs ran through the streets
and you could fall into a pothole and
drown
and his father beat him every morning
practically
and his siblings were a mess
and then suddenly
the two of the brothers ran off to
moscow
and then the father decided to follow
them and the rest of the family
basically abandoned anton chekhov at the
age of 18 or 16 in this miserable little
town and he had to fend for himself
and he started becoming really bitter
like why did why me
why did i have this awful family this
horrible abusive father this mother who
won't stand for up for herself this
drunken brother why me and he got and
then he's he suddenly got sick of this
story in his mind
and he goes
maybe i need to look at this totally
differently
you know i don't want to be like this
the rest of my life
and so he decided that what he would do
is he would try and understand his
father instead of judging him
and he went through a process where my
father was born a serf
we got freed later on but he was
basically a slave
his father beat him
he was never allowed to go into the kind
of work that he wanted to so no wonder
he became an alcoholic who beat me he
can't help it
instead of
hating him i'm going to love my father
i'm going to try and love him for this
human being for this fact of nature that
can't help himself but is my father for
who he is
and in that moment he had a total
epiphany and transformation
that by getting rid of his negative
emotions towards people he was like free
he was liberated and i've experienced
this myself
in my meditation
to go through just an hour or half an
hour of freeing yourself from all your
negative emotions about people this is
almost as if you're gonna fly in the air
you feel so light and suddenly gotten
rid of all of your burdens all the
things that are weighing you down
accepting people and loving them for who
they are is an incredibly liberating
thing now you can't do that for everyone
some people are so toxic and ugly that
you're never going to reach a point
where you're going to love them but you
can understand them and in understanding
them you don't have to internalize that
the pain they inflict on you
this is he changed his attitude towards
people and towards life and it changed
everything that came to him later on he
became a successful doctor and later a
great writer
the two the brothers of the same reality
the same world that they were looking at
the same family one looked at it through
this prism of empathy and love the other
looked through resentment and bitterness
the one person check off got famous and
successful
and and a fulfilled life the others just
descended into suicide and alcoholism so
your attitude is will mean what you get
in life
you know you will sabotage yourself with
your attitude so if i got all bitter and
railed against fate for making me who i
am for the stroke that ruined my life
that took away everything that i value i
can't travel i can't drive
i would become a different person i
would become somebody who limited my
scope of activity but by accepting it by
saying i'm not going to let this happen
i'm going to accept it i widen my scope
of activity i do things that i normally
wouldn't do if i became all angry and
avoidant and anxious
amarfati yes exactly tell people what
that means
well it's a latin expression that
literally means love of fate
and
it's
it was created by the german philosopher
friedrich nietzsche who's one of my
great icons in life one of my favorite
writers
and basically his idea was
that we humans normally go through life
kind of
not accepting things we want things to
be different from the way they are
we want to have a better
wife or husband we want our children to
be better we don't like the political
system we want this sort of utopia to
suddenly come about we want people to be
different we want this we want that and
denisha that meant you are anti-life
you are against life because life isn't
like that life is a series of facts life
is what it is we've evolved a certain
way your reality is a certain way it is
what it is
and by
pushing against things
you hate life
you want to love life
you want to love fate
and what fate means
things happen to you can't control
you didn't control who your parents are
you didn't control what city you were
born into what school you went into you
didn't control whether you were born
rich or poor
right there's much you can't control
that's fate
accept it for what it is stop whining
and stop going i want something else
embrace your world your life
our fear of death is probably the
greatest influence on our behavior
throughout history we're the only animal
that's cautious of our mortality
and it's caused an incredible reaction
we're avoiding we're anxious we invent
an afterlife a heaven where we'll all go
right or today
we never see death we never see
people die in hospitals we never see the
animals that we eat being killed we have
no confrontation with death personally
in our life completely disconnected from
it
it makes us anxious and fearful and that
controls everything about our behavior
we become anxious and fearful about
everything
so the ability to accept death and look
at square in the eye and accept this is
your reality that you're not going to
live forever is very liberating
so
a more fatty is a step from turning your
back that's face this way going here's
life and oh i hate it i don't want it
to turning around and facing and going i
accept it i love it i embrace it and it
has a very powerful effect
let's go a little deeper on that so
with your recent essentially moment
where you couldn't help but look at
death what have you
learned what have you taken away from
that
knowing um
as a writer
you have shown time and time again that
you see things that are often
counter-intuitive
so what what was it in that maybe that
even surprised you
well the experience itself
on a physical level was very weird
because i didn't experience the stroke
as it was happening it was almost an
outer body thing
so my wife noticed i was acting very
strangely my whole body was
weird and everything
and then i blanked out and i was
basically kind of in a coma
or not conscious for about 10 15 minutes
and um and then i was taken out of it at
the hospital
and i kind of freaked out
like what's happening to me where am i
what happened to my body
so it was a kind of a weird
out-of-body experience
that i think i'm still kind of
recovering from
the other thing was um
i did a book with 50 cent called the
50th law
and i
hung out with 50 for several months he's
a great guy we're still friends
50 had even worse near-death experience
than i was he was shot nine times very
close range bullet went through his jaw
he came this close to dying
and
he said and i've noticed it in him since
then
that nothing can faze him after that
how can he be afraid of anything in life
once he came that close to death so he
has this kind of zen calmness that i've
witnessed you don't think of 50 as being
zen and calm you think him as this angry
kind of thug like rapper but in real
life he's incredibly calm person who
never seems to get riled by things
well i i've had a little bit of that
effect myself
um
so i've noticed the people around me
like my mother or other people they're
all freaking out about what's happened
to me oh my god you've got a camp you
might fall you might do this
and i i don't care really i don't i feel
calm
i feel more calm than i felt in a long
time
so that was kind of a counterintuitive
thing that i wasn't expecting now is
that because you feel like there's
nothing left to take away now every day
is a gift or
what is it what is the calmness born of
it's definitely that
and then it's definitely it helps the
fact
that i've written this is my sixth book
the loss of human nature was sort of
like my ultimate i like vomited out of
me everything that i had built over the
last 20 years into this one book all the
things i've learned
all my anger i got it out into this one
book so if i die
i don't have to i don't have any regrets
you know i'd like to write a seventh and
an eighth book i have other ideas but i
could die and i'm okay i lived a great
life
and i talk a lot about that in mastery
and in this book
that the worst feeling in the world is
to be facing death and to think
damn it i've wasted my life
and i want people out there to realize
that if you're 20s and your 30s you
don't want to reach that point you don't
want to waste your time and become 55 58
have a stroke face death and what have
you done nothing you've moved from job
to job you tried this you tried that
with half an energy you really have
nothing to look back on that's the worst
feeling
so you know i don't have that problem i
don't think
so that's part of how i'm able to stay
calm
but the other thing is you say
bring it on what words can happen i've
already experienced it
you know
i'm somebody who has a great deal of
fear of death and now i had to deal with
it so
yeah it's all right it's not that bad i
can handle it
that is amazing thank you for sharing
that yeah all right before i ask my last
question tell these guys where they can
find you online
well i have my old website which i've
kept together which is www dot power
the and is spelled out so
powerseductionwar.com
and on there you'll find links to the
mastery my pages on mastery and to my
new book the laws of human nature i for
some reason i've just kept the old
address so that's where you can find
everything all right perfect
my last question yes what's the impact
that you want to have on the world
well
i want to have the largest impact
possible
so i'm grandiose
you know which is one of the chapters in
the book
um
you know i don't i'm an ambitious person
i don't write books
to please my ego
to make people laugh or to entertain i
want to influence them i want to get
inside your skin inside your brain and
alter how you look at the world
and so i believe
from the emails i've gotten from lots of
readers and people i've talked to that
my books have had that effect
that you just don't read my books
they get under your skin and you're
thinking about them years later
and i consciously design that
for for that reason
i seduce you into following me i tell
you stories i don't preach or tell you
this is what it is i tell you a story
each chapter is big i begin with a story
to gently bring you into my world and
into my ideas i want to get under your
skin i want to change how you look at
the world
because i don't think
i'm not doing that for evil purposes i
think my
way of looking at the world will help
you
i know because
i get a lot of
email from people from mastery mastery
has helped a lot of people find their
way in life find their path to a career
that is fulfilling and to know how to
discipline themselves
so i think that my perspective will have
a beneficial effect on you maybe i'm
just deluding myself
but i think that and so i want the
biggest impact possible i want to change
how you look at the world and so with
the laws of human nature i want to
change how you look at people
normally everything is personal oh they
said that oh they don't like me oh he
likes me i'm not getting attention
cut that off
i want you to look at people
as as facts of nature as things that
like a rock or a stone or a plant this
is who they are
and i want you to observe them and
accept them for who they are and deal
with them as individuals
you will be free of all that emotional
baggage that you carry when you take
everything so personally i think
altering your perspective how you look
at people will have a radical influence
on all aspects of your life so i want to
have
the biggest impact that i possibly can
and that's how i write try and design my
books for i love that
awesome robert thank you so much thank
you
thank you thank you
[Applause]
all right guys read this book in fact
read everything this man has ever
written i'm telling you he is absolutely
right these are books that get under
your skin they will change the way that
you look at the world they will change
the way that you look at human nature
and most importantly
if you let it they will change the way
you look at yourself and we didn't even
get into some of the extraordinary stuff
that he talked about in the book about
how you develop self-esteem the story
that you tell yourself how you construct
your sense of self how it's used both as
a mask and as a way to reflect back on
yourself it is incredibly extraordinary
and as you go on the journey of reading
the book if you're open to it you will
see yourself in many of the darker
elements of human nature i am sad to say
that i think all of us will see bits and
pieces of ourselves through all of the
18 laws of human nature not all of them
are flattering but if you're willing to
really get that level of understanding
like he said from there you can change
yourself but if you don't first
understand yourself then that is
absolutely hopeless and that has really
been the extraordinary journey that he's
taken us on as reader zarar through all
six of his books
is to just understand as he called other
people facts of nature i think that's so
interesting and to see yourself in that
pantheon as well to understand that
there are parts of you that are just
facts of nature and to really come to
understand those is to come to
understand yourself is to be a master of
yourself and that journey is something
that i'm extraordinarily grateful to him
for laying out in this book so
eloquently i think it is worth every
second that you will spend on it i
cannot highly recommend it enough all
right guys if you haven't already be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary take
[Applause]
everybody thank you so much for watching
and being a part of this community if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
you're going to get weekly videos on
building a growth mindset cultivating
grit and unlocking your full potential